---
title: "00. About"
date: "2023-03-04 08:44:36"
publish: true
slug: "about"
tags: []
---

# About

## Obsidian

**Obsidian** is one of many note-taking applications. Unlike other note-taking apps, it uses markdown syntax that makes it more developer-friendly. Obsidian supports a few additional syntax options on top of the standard markdown syntax. Something like [Callout](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Callouts).

## Vault

When you first start using Obsidian, you will probably encounter the term "Vault" first. The term "Vault" used in Obsidian to refer to the directory(repository) where notes and attachments are stored.

When you select a directory as a Vault in Obsidian, a hidden folder `.obsidian` will be created. This folder will contain sources of plugins, plugins' data and settings. Which means that if you copy `.obsidian` folder, you could generate a new Obsidian Vault with same settings.

That's why this Vault Starter is created. This starter contains plugins, themes, and settings of my taste.

> [!tip] See also  
> [Obsidian Help](https://help.obsidian.md/Obsidian/Index)

## Features of this Starter

- Essential plugins configured
- Hotkeys for MacOS
    - Referred to OneNote & IntelliJ hotkeys
- Git based Backup & Syncing between devices
- Plugin Error Handing
    - Excel to Markdown Table - changed to desktop only plugin
        - This plugin has an error on IOS

---

# How to use this Starter

## Desktop

1. Create a [new repository](https://github.com/new) on Github
    - e.g. **Repository Name:** Notes
    - Doesn't matter - Public or Private
    - **No** README, `.gitignore`, License
2. Clone [Obsidian-Starter](https://github.com/Galacsh/Obsidian-Starter) repository
3. Run commands below `9. Change "Commit Author"`
4. Run Obsidian
5. `Open folder as vault` and select your repository
6. Trust author and enable plugins
7. Rerun Obsidian
8. **Settings > Obsidian Git**
9. Change "Commit Author"
    - `name`, `email`

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Galacsh/Obsidian-Starter.git 'Notes'
cd Notes
git update-index --assume-unchanged .obsidian/workspace.json
git remote rename origin upstream
git remote add origin https://github.com/USERNAME/Notes.git
git push -u origin main
```

## IOS

1. Run Obsidian
2. `Create new vault`
	- Turn off "Store in iCloud"
3. **Settings > Community plugins**
    1. `Turn on community plugins`
    2. `Browse`
    3. Search **Obsidian Git**
    4. "Install" and "Enable"
4. Click "Options"
5. Change "Commit Author"
    - Authentication/Commit Author
        - Username: Github Username
        - Password: [PAT](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)
            - Fine-grained personal access tokens
            - For your repository
            - Permissions
                - Contents : "Read and Write access"
                - Commit status : "Read and Write access"
                - Metadata : "Read access"
6. Close "Settings"
7. Open "Command palette" and run `Obsidian Git: Clone existing remote repo`
8. Fill in the path of your repository
	- Check if there is `.git` in the end of the path
9. Select "Vault Root"
10. Select "YES" to pull `.obsidian` folder
11. Rerun Obsidian
12. Settings > Obsidian Git
    - Fill in "Author name for commit" & "Author email for commit"

---

[[Posts/Get Started/01. File Structure|01. 전체 파일 구조]]
