---
title: "02. Prerequisites"
date: "2023-03-03 23:09:09"
publish: true
slug: "prerequisites"
tags: []
---

# Font

In Obsidian, you can specify three types of fonts:

- Interface font
- Text font
- Monospace font

## Interface font

For the interface font, the system default font would be the best. And perhaps because I'm using a MacBook, even the system default font looks quite nice for the interface font.

## Text font

When choosing a text font, I focused on good support for both Korean and English, and selected the most beautiful font between them. I was thinking of using the [Noto Sans KR](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Sans+KR) font that I've liked for a long time, but I decided to use the [Pretendard](https://github.com/orioncactus/pretendard) font, which has almost the same shape but slightly more compact letter spacing.

## Monospace font

I chose [Jetbrains Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/JetBrains+Mono?query=jetbrains) font which I think the most beautiful monospace font, and [D2Coding ligature](https://github.com/naver/d2codingfont) as the fallback font for Korean.

## Installation

The fonts mentioned above should be installed as system fonts for all users, then Obsidian will recognize them. If it doesn't work, try resetting it in `Settings > Appearance > Font`.

---

# Theme

The following explanations do not include instructions for installing a theme. Only plugin-related topics will be covered. When you install this Vault, the **Minimal** theme I installed should be installed as well. If it is not installed, please install the **Minimal** theme in `Settings > Appearance > Themes > Manage`.

---

[[Posts/Get Started/03. Plugins (1) - For Editting|03. 플러그인 소개 (1) - 편집 관련]]
