---
title: "03. Plugins (1) - For Editting"
date: "2023-03-01 23:43:13"
publish: true
slug: "about-plugins-01"
tags: []
---

It is true that the basic version of Obsidian has limited functionality. However, this problem can be overcome with plugins, and this article introduces plugins installed in this Vault.

# Advanced Tables

Usually the biggest problem when writing Markdown documents is creating tables. The syntax for creating tables is as follows, and it is inconvenient to manually type all the syntaxes and value inputs.

```markdown
| Column 1 | Column 2 |
| -------- | -------- |
| Value 1  | Value 2  |
```

The result of the above table is as follows:

| Column 1 | Column 2 |
| -------- | -------- |
| Value 1  | Value 2  |

But with this [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=table-editor-obsidian), you can write tables easily using the `Tab`, `Shift + Tab` and `Enter`.  
When it's done, you can just move the cursor outside the table using the arrow keys to finish writing. (Or you can specify a shortcut key to move the cursor out of the table. `Move cursor out of table`)

# Excel to Markdown Table

This [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-excel-to-markdown-table) is useful for converting tables from Excel or browser to Markdown syntax when needed. Obsidian does not have a built-in function for copying tables, but this plugin allows you to copy a table as a Markdown table from Excel or a browser.

At first, I considered assigning a hotkey. But instead, I decided to use this plugin by simply opening the command palette and typing "Excel to Markdown" after copying the table.

# Linter

This [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-linter) ensures consistent Markdown syntax style when writing, similar to the code formatting function in IDEs.

# Obsidian Better Internal Link Inserter

Obsidian's WikiLink (Internal Link) feature, which allows you to create a document immediately by linking to it with `[[document title]]` format, is one of its powerful features. However, it looks messy when linking to documents in different locations because the path is fully displayed.

Therefore, I prefer to use aliases for links, but the syntax for aliases needs many key strokes.

```markdown
[[path to document|alias]]
```

So, I installed this [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-better-internal-link-inserter), which makes adding aliases easier. Here's how I use it:

- **When inserting an existing document as a link:**
    1. Enter the text to be used as an alias
    2. Select the text
    3. Use the shortcut key for the plugin's command, "Insert an internal link"
    4. Select the file
- **When creating a link to a document that doesn't exist yet:**  
    5. Enter the title of the document to be linked (not yet created)  
    6. Select the entered document title.  
    7. Type `[[`  
    8. Move the cursor to the enclosed link `[[linked text]]`  
    9. Use the shortcut key for the "Open link under cursor in new tab" command to create the document

# Outliner

Before introducing this plugin, I really like OneNote and here's why:

- Easy creation of bullet point lists
    - Can convert to numbered lists easily
        - Automatically manages numbering sequence
    - Intuitive copying and pasting between lists
- Quick editing with keyboard shortcuts
    - Understand key points by folding and unfolding

Obsidian does support outlining to some extent, but at first it felt very cumbersome compared to OneNote. However, after installing this [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-outliner), I was able to set up shortcut keys to achieve a fast and intuitive editing experience similar to OneNote.

# Paste image rename

When I decided to use Obsidian, the image pasting feature was also a concerning part. In my experience(writing markdown documents with Visual Studio Code), it was very hard to include images in the markdown document.

However, since Obsidian natively supports pasting images from the clipboard, it was much more convenient to write.

One thing that was inconvenient was that the file name was automatically assigned when pasting the image. The generated name was ugly. Of course, since you don't often need to reuse the image after pasting it, it's not a big deal. However, when you have a large number of images, it will be much easier if the images are named in a readable way.

This [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=obsidian-paste-image-rename) solves this problem by renaming the image file when pasting it.

# Paste URL into selection

This is also a very satisfying [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=url-into-selection). I haven't seen this feature in any other note app. It converts selected text into a URL link on the clipboard.

It works without setting an additional hotkey. If the selected text disappears when you paste it, try **Ctrl(Cmd) + z** to undo and then paste again.

# Various Complements

This [plugin](https://obsidian.md/plugins?id=various-complements) provides autocomplete functionality, which is not available in Notion. I love this plugin.

---

[[Posts/Get Started/04. 플러그인 소개 (2) - UI & UX 관련|02. 플러그인 소개 (2) - UI & UX 관련]]
